{{Extension
| status          = stable
| hook1           = BeforePageDisplay
| description     = Modern sidebar layout, filter chips, and mobile toggle for Cargo Special:Drilldown
| author          = [[User:PhotographerTom|Tom O'Neill]], Saintapedia contributors
| maintainer      = [[User:PhotographerTom|Tom O'Neill]]
| version         = 0.6.0
| update          = 2026-07-16
| mediawiki       = 1.39+
| php             = 7.4+
| needs-updatephp = No
| license         = MIT
| download        = {{GithubDownload|Saintapedia|SaintapediaDrilldown}}
| readme          = [https://github.com/Saintapedia/SaintapediaDrilldown/blob/main/README.md README]
| changelog       = [https://github.com/Saintapedia/SaintapediaDrilldown/blob/main/CHANGELOG.md CHANGELOG]
| parameters      = <nowiki/>
* $wgSaintapediaDrilldownSidebarEnabled
* $wgSaintapediaDrilldownSidebarWidth
* $wgSaintapediaDrilldownShowFilterChips
* $wgSaintapediaDrilldownStickyFilters
* $wgSaintapediaDrilldownStickyChips
* $wgSaintapediaDrilldownPillChips
* $wgSaintapediaDrilldownMobileBreakpoint
* $wgSaintapediaDrilldownTheme
* $wgSaintapediaDrilldownConfigPage
}}
The '''SaintapediaDrilldown''' extension improves the faceted-search UI of {{ll|Extension:Cargo|Cargo}}'s '''Special:Drilldown''' with a filter sidebar, active-filter chips, sticky filters, theme presets, and a mobile show/hide toggle. Layout and colours can be tuned from '''MediaWiki:SaintapediaDrilldown-config''' without redeploying. It works entirely through ResourceLoader JavaScript and scoped CSS — Cargo and MediaWiki core are not modified.

If the extension cannot find Cargo's expected DOM structure, it exits early and Cargo's default layout is shown.

Developed for [https://saintapedia.org/ Saintapedia].

== Features ==

* Sidebar layout for <code>.drilldown-filters</code> and <code>.drilldown-results</code>
* Removable active-filter chips above results (optional sticky bar, pill shape)
* Sticky filter panel on desktop
* Theme presets (<code>default</code>, <code>soft</code>, <code>compact</code>) and wiki JSON config
* Collapsible filters below a configurable mobile breakpoint
* Zero load on pages other than <code>Special:Drilldown</code>

== Installation ==

{{ExtensionInstall
|SaintapediaDrilldown
|registration=required
|custom-steps=* Requires {{ll|Extension:Cargo|Cargo}} (provides Special:Drilldown). Load Cargo before this extension.
}}

Clone from GitHub:

<syntaxhighlight lang="bash">
cd extensions/
git clone https://github.com/Saintapedia/SaintapediaDrilldown.git SaintapediaDrilldown
</syntaxhighlight>

Add to <code>LocalSettings.php</code> '''after''' Cargo:

<syntaxhighlight lang="php">
wfLoadExtension( 'Cargo' );
wfLoadExtension( 'SaintapediaDrilldown' );
</syntaxhighlight>

No database updates are required. Restart PHP / clear object cache if ResourceLoader assets do not appear immediately.

== Configuration ==

; <code>$wgSaintapediaDrilldownSidebarEnabled</code>
: Master switch. Default: <code>true</code>.
; <code>$wgSaintapediaDrilldownSidebarWidth</code>
: Sidebar width in pixels on desktop (120–800). Default: <code>280</code>.
; <code>$wgSaintapediaDrilldownShowFilterChips</code>
: Show removable filter chips above results. Default: <code>true</code>.
; <code>$wgSaintapediaDrilldownStickyFilters</code>
: Use <code>position: sticky</code> for the filter sidebar. Default: <code>true</code>.
; <code>$wgSaintapediaDrilldownMobileBreakpoint</code>
: Viewport width (px) for stacked mobile layout (320–1600). Default: <code>720</code>.
; <code>$wgSaintapediaDrilldownStickyChips</code>
: Sticky active-filter chips bar on desktop. Default: <code>true</code>.
; <code>$wgSaintapediaDrilldownPillChips</code>
: Pill-shaped chips. Default: <code>true</code>.
; <code>$wgSaintapediaDrilldownTheme</code>
: Theme preset: <code>default</code>, <code>soft</code>, or <code>compact</code>. Default: <code>default</code>.
; <code>$wgSaintapediaDrilldownConfigPage</code>
: MediaWiki page title (no namespace prefix) for JSON overrides. Default: <code>SaintapediaDrilldown-config</code>. Set to empty string to disable.

=== Wiki config (JSON) ===

Create <code>MediaWiki:SaintapediaDrilldown-config</code>:

<syntaxhighlight lang="json">
{
	"theme": "soft",
	"sidebarWidth": 300,
	"stickyChips": true,
	"themeVars": {
		"stickyTop": "3.5em"
	}
}
</syntaxhighlight>

Wiki values override the matching <code>$wg*</code> defaults. Invalid or unsafe <code>themeVars</code> values are ignored.

Sidebar width can also be overridden in CSS:

<syntaxhighlight lang="css">
.cargo-drilldown-layout {
	--cargo-sidebar-width: 320px;
}
</syntaxhighlight>

== See also ==

* {{ll|Extension:Cargo|Cargo}} — required; provides Special:Drilldown
* {{ll|Extension:Cargo/Browsing_data|Cargo: Browsing data}}
* [https://github.com/Saintapedia/SaintapediaDrilldown/issues Issue tracker]

{{Used by}}

[[Category:Extensions by Saintapedia{{#translation:}}]]
